Service Now Introduction & Overview : History, Versions, Benefits
Self-service: Basic View of service now and instance creation in servicenow.
User Administration – User creation. User groups roles Security level, concept of impersonating, System Properties, ACL & Home page creation in servicenow.
Basic ITIL Concepts. Lifecycle explanation of Incident, change, task, knowledge and problem management in servicenow.
Tables & Columns, Applications & Menus in servicenow.
[★] Client side and server side scripting in servicenow.
Client script, UI Policies, UI Actions, Business Rules, Script includes in servicenow
Concept of Gliderecord and other API’s (G_form, G_user, GlideAJAX, Glidesystem..etc in servicenow
Service Catalog and its concepts. (record producer, order guide, catalog items) in servicenow
Workflows and its activities in servicenow.
SLM, SLA,OLA in servicenow
Scheduled jobs , Email Notifications in servicenow
Data Policies in servicenow.
Data Sources & Import set Transform Maps in servicenow
Integration (SOAP & REST), LDAP, ODBC in servicenow.
Update sets in servicenow
Export sets in servicenow
What is service now and benefits?
Comparison of service now with other ITSM tools.
Give one real example of table relationship. Parent child relationship && relationship between table in servicenow
What is SaaS, PaaS and IaaS. And relate service now with these terminologies in servicenow.
Servienow versions, which version you are currently working on (have to say Quebec)
What are the advantages of latest version of servienow.
What is your roles and responsibility are as part of service now professional?
What are Roles and Important of Roles in servicenow.
How to restrict application or module for specific people in servicenow.
Delegates and purpose in servicenow.
Use of impersonate. how to impersonate and what are the roles required to impersonate in servicenow.
What is view and how to create a view or restrict a view to set of people in servicenow.
What is reference qualifier? Types and explain in servicenow
How call a script include from reference qualifier.Advanced – reference equal: javascript:new u_backfillAssignmentGroup(); (script include name.funtion name) in servicenow
What is dynamic filter options – to call a business rule or script include in servicenow
Ways to create a table in servicenow.
What is the limitation of extend table in servicenow? (10000)
Why, created application is not showing in left menu bar after creating a new application in servicenow. (Until we have a module created, the application will not show in left or it is restricted with roles.)
Difference between application and module in servicenow.
What is table schema map in servicenow?
Encoded query in servicenow.
What is scoped application and difference between scoped app and global application in servicenow. (to isolate an application and its configuration from servicneow oob database and configuration, we make scoped application then global scope.)
How to use logging in scoped application in servicenow.
When we extend a table, what are all the configurations will apply to child table and how to restrict them in servicenow?
What is ACL and uses in servicenow?
Types of ACL’s in servicenow.
Why cannot a normal user create a new ACL or Edit a ACL in servicenow. (security_admin)
What roles required to get ACL access and how to get the roles in servicenow. (security_admin).
What is admin override (why admin is not able to edit a record or do some activity) in servicenow
ACL checking activities ( roles, condition and scripts) in servicenow
Difference between –None-. *, table.active (incident.caller) in servicenow.
What is the execution order of checking in ACL. (field and then table) ACL allow – incident.active & ACL – deny – incident.* (will active field get access?) true – false -true in servicenow
What happened if there are multiple ACL that provide access true and false.(one should be satisfy) in servicenow
Give an example for script based ACL in servicenow.
What are system properties and explain with few examples in servicenow?
While exporting data into excel/CSV, I am unable to get data more than 1000 records, what is the problem and how to solve it in servicenow.
What is UI policy in servicenow.
What are the main actions can be done via UI Policy in servicenow.
What is script option in UI policy. Explain with examples in servicenow.
What is the difference between UI policy action and UI policy in servicenow.
What is “reverse if false”, Global, On Load, inherit UI policy page in servicenow
What is home page and how to create a home page in servicenow.
SLA definitions and types and description of each type. Why SLA is required in servicenow.
SLA snow page options in servicenow
Difference between response SLA and resolution SLA in servicenow.
What is SLM in servicenow.
What is incident and life cycle of incident in servicenow.
What is problem and types of problem? When problem with be raised in servicenow.
Real time problem situation and explain the entire process in servicenow.
What is change, types and lifecycle in servicenow?
What is task and lifecycle in servicenow.
Retroactive start and pause in servicenow.
Difference between incident and Risk in servicenow.
What is client scripts and explain it types with examples in servicenow.
Service now architecture (form layer / script layer /database layer) in servicenow
What is the oncelledit type and what are the limitations of it in servicenow.
What are supportive API’s for client script in servicenow.
What are the limitations of client scripts in servicenow.
What is the difference between client script and UI policy in servicenow
Where are the places client script will be useful in servicenow.
Explain few client API’s with examples in servicenow
Order of execution (ACL, client scripts, BR, ui policy, dictionary…) in servicenow
What is dictionary in servicenow?
What is dictionary override. Explain with some example in servicenow.
Base table and child table relationships in servicenow.
2 level , 3 level traversing and DOTWALKING in servicenow
Difference between glideRecord vs getreference or getreference vs get value in servicenow?
Difference between UI policy and client script in servicenow.
What is the difference between Global vs scoped client script. Which one is suggested approach in servicenow?
Retroactive start and pause in SLA in servicenow
Client script best practices in servicenow (avoid global CS, use scratchpad to limit server calls, don’t use gliderecord, best us of script include, don’t use DOM, plan asyn calls, getreference or ajax, use UI policies)
What is update set and respective table . where the updates will capture(sys_update_set.xml). state values. (sys_update_set and sys_update_xml) in servicenow
Limitations of update sets in servicenow
Update set best practices in servicenow. 
Ways to move update set from one env to another. Which one is good to follow in servicenow?
What is update source and how to configure in servicenow?
Preview issues , backout in servicenow
What is merged update sets in servicenow
What is reports in servicenow
How to create a report, a new report or report from data source in servicenow.
How to create a report data source in servicenow
Share, export, publish, schedule options and use cases in servicenow.
What is database views with example in servicenow.
Scheduled jobs and what are the things we can schedule in servicenow.
What is template and how to create a template for incident or change (toddle bar) in servicenow
Scheduled import clean up – how to do (for 7days once) in servicenow
What is UI action and purpose of the UI action in real time examples (change example) in servicenow
UI actions and placements in servicenow.
What is form design and form layout in servicenow?
What is use of slush bucket in servicenow?
Difference between sys_user.list and sys_user.LIST and sys_user.FORM and Sys_user.form in servicenow
What is stats for in servicenow?
Explain import set table and transform maps with one example in servicenow.
How to import data from a table in servicenow
How to export data from a table in servicenow
What are the limitations of direct export and import in servicenow?
What is mapping fields, what is the difference between manual mapping (explicit mappaing) and auto mapping in servicenow.
What is data source in servicenow?
Types of data source and port values for each type in servicenow.
Explain Coalesce in servicenow.
Use of transform maps scripts with real time example in servicenow.
Types of transform maps in servicenow
What are when options and explain all the options(onstart….) and difference between each types in servicenow
Form options of transform maps like "Run business rules, Enforce mandatory fields, copy empty fields in servicenow.
Execution flow of transform script types. (start,before,after,complete) SBAC in servicenow
What is business rules and types , explain with real time scenarios in servicenow.
What are the main objects on after and async in servicenow
What is scratchpad and where are the places, g_scratchpad will be useful in servicenow.
what is data policies and actions can be done via data policy in servicenow
what is the diff between data policy and Ui policy (datapolicy – time of data import and webservices) in servicenow.
How to convert data policy to ui policy and ui policy to data policies and what the conditions to be met. (Global-checked , run script – cleared, visible – leave alone) in servicenow
when data policy will be used
What is email notifications
what is inbound email action. explain with example
what is email digest.
What is the use of weight option in email notification.
How an email will be recognized by service now system( watermark, subject – prefix, reply & from /table)
how the data will be read from email (email.body, email.subject) with examples
Inbound email action in details, event management.
What is the format and flow of an event?
What is the use of param1 and param2 ${event.param1}
How to schedule a event from script (gs.eventQueueScheduled().
What is the syntax to run an event (eventqueue)
How to create a link to approve/reject an approval In email? ${mailto:mailto.rejection} //rejection is an email template
How to print test or something from email script : template.print(“Summary of “);
Explain inbound email action with some examples
What is email script
What is the use of email template and how to trigger a template from script.
what are the disadvantages of business rules
what are the advantages of business rule
explain all the types of business rules with examples
Gliderecord methods with examples Addquery, addorcondition, next, hasnext, _next, addjoinquery, addnullquery, addactivequery.
What is gliderecord – set workflow method.
What is the diff between g_form, g_user,gs and gliderecord.
What is the difference between g_user.hasRole vs g_user.hasRoles vs g_user.hasRoleExactly vs g_user.hasRolefromLists. (hasrole is role +admin & hasroleexactly (only role)
What is the use of gs.info and gs.log
What is service catalog and types – describe with real time examples
What is the variable and variable set?
What is category?
Why my catalog item is not showing in service catalog.
What is 3 step process
What is rule base
What is order guide
Difference between order guide to catalog.
What is the difference between record producers to catalog?
What is cascading variables?
How read variable values from record producer form (producer.variablename)
How to read variable values from catalog form In script or workflow script (current.varaible.pool.variablename or current.variables.variablename)
How to start/stop a workflow from script
Explain few important variable types.
How to limit service catalog request form to certain group or people.
What is the user criteria?
What is the difference between workflow and execution plan
What are the basic activities available in every workflow? Begin and End
Workflow activities for notifications with example (approval user, group, action and rollback, approval cordinator)
Workflow activities for conditions (if, switch and wait for condition)
Workflow activities for notifications.
What are the ways to select recipients of the notifications (manual, script, dynamic)
What is subflow and explain with examples
How to pass values between activities
How to pass values from main workflow to subflow.
What is the difference between catalog task to task- activities to be create them
What is timer activity
What are utilities activities. Explain with examples Branch , Join, lock / unlock, return value, set value, turnstile & runscript.
What is script include and uses. Explain with example
What is the difference between script include and business rule
What is class and functions.
How to call a script include from client script and business rule.
What is callback function
What is the difference between getXML and getXMLwait.
What is client callable option in script include
Types of script include and use cases of script include (where are the places we use script include)
How to call a script include from another script include. (gs.include())
Difference between gs.include() and NewInclude() – A:gs.include is to call a script include and include() is to initialize a script include into a object.
Where are the places “scripts” can be used.
What is GlideAJAX, Getparameter, addparameters in script include concept.
When we call a service side script from client side, in which format, the data will transfer? XML.
Where are the places , script includes can be used
What is the difference between script include and global business rule
Which kind of script can be used in script include
What are the best practices of scripting.
What is global business rules and best practices.
What is backround scripts and real time example
What is the difference between background script and scheduled job. Which account the job will run when we execute
How to schedule a script , explain with example
What is integration and explain with real time example.
What are the types of web services
What is the pre-reqs required to set integration between for two databases, from user and table level. That roles are required for web services activities
Difference between import and integration
What is the difference between REST and SOAP,
Types of webservices
What are the pre-reqs needed to set a communication(integration) between two sources.
Explain with real time scenario
What are advantages and disadvantages of SOAP.
What are the methods of REST
What are the methods of SOAP
What are scripted webservice and what is response and request.
What is default source type of rest and soap.
What are the roles required for webservices.
sn_ws.RESTMessageV2 and sn_ws.SOAPMessageV2
what are the tools you use to test the integration part before going to actual work. Soap UI 4.3, advanced rest client -chrome addin .postman – tool.
Default supportive format of REST.
What is an API and how to analyses an API.
How to hide attachments for a group or location (disableattavhment())
What s single tenant & multi tenant (domain separation – MSP – manager service provider).
What is the difference between GlideForm to g_form (GlideForm is an API or class with many methods where g_form is a object to call the API methods.)
CMDB – top down & Bottom up approaches.
Explain scripting layers in service now.
If we create a onload client script and before business rule on load, which one will run first. And why
Update set move to other instance , best practice.
What happens if we use g_form in business rule.
Will current can be used in after business rule? If no , what is the alternative.
Sprint release story ?
How to make the authentication in Scripted rest API (using ACL)
How to restrict/Allow few table accesses for a group of people (ACL – System Properties)
Best Practices of client Script and Business Rules.
Field Mandatory – how to do ? If UI policy- how can u handle in list view?
Scenario of Tech parks - 5 buildings - parking floors (2) - parking slots (few number) > Madrid enhancements.
Limitation of current.update() and alternative for this.? Setworkflow(false)
Sc# - workflow manager approval, if manager don’t approve in 5 days, the approval should go to Manager’s manager.
SC# - Order guide, if two catalog first level approvals have a same person as approver, cascade approvals to other catalog approvals.
What is the different methodology of agile? (scrum , XP & Kanban).
Fix Script vs backround script
Ui macro scenario #jelly script
Server Side APIS:

GlideRecord
GlideRecdrdSecure
GlideAggregate
GlideSystem
GlideDateTime
GlideDuration
GlideSchedule

Etc

Client Side APIs:

GlideUser
GlideForm
GlideAjax
GlideDialogHindow
GlideModal
GlideModalForm

Explain In hinglish as interview question
